# UART_Transmitter

UART stands for Universal asynchronous receiver and transmitter (UART) is a circuit that sends parallel data through a serial line.

A UART includes a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter is essentially a special shift register that loads data in parallel and then shifts it out bit by bit at a specific rate. The receiver, on the other hand, shifts in data bit by bit and then reassembles the data. The serial line is '1' when it is idle. The transmission starts with a start bit, which is '0', followed by data bits and an optional parity bit, and ends with stop bits, which are '1'. The number of data bits can be 6, 7, or 8. The optional parity bit is used for error detection. For odd parity, it is set to '0' when the data bits have an odd number of 1's. For even parity, it is set to '0' when the data bits have an even number of 1's. The number of stop bits can be 1, 1.5, or 2.

No clock information is conveyed through the serial line. Before the transmission starts, the transmitter and receiver must agree on a set of parameters in advance, which include the baud rate (i.e., number of bits per second), the number of data bits and stop bits, and use of the parity bit. The commonly used baud rates are 2400, 4800, 9600, and 19,200 bauds.

##Baud rate generator

The baud rate generator generates a sampling signal whose frequency is exactly 16 times the UART's designated baud rate.
For the 19,200 baud rate, the sampling rate has to be 307,200 (i.e., 19,200*16) ticks per second. Since the system clock rate is 50 MHz, the baud rate generator needs a mod-163 (i.e., 307200 counter, in which the one-clock-cycle tick is asserted once every 163 clock cycles).

##UART Receiving Subsystem

Since no clock information is conveyed from the transmitted signal, the receiver can retrieve the data bits only by using the predetermined parameters. We use an oversampling scheme to estimate the middle points of transmitted bits and then retrieve them at these points accordingly.

##UART Transmitting Subsystem

The organization of a UART transmitting subsystem is similar to that of the receiving subsystem. It consists of a UART transmitter, baud rate generator, and interface circuit.
The UART transmitter is essentially a shift register that shifts out data bits at a specific rate. The rate can be controlled by one-clock-cycle enable ticks generated by the baud rate generator. Because no oversampling is involved, the frequency of the ticks is 16 times slower than that of the UART receiver. Instead of introducing a new counter, the UART transmitter usually shares the baud rate generator of the UART receiver and uses an internal counter to keep track of the number of enable ticks. A bit is shifted out every 16 enable
ticks.

A circuit found in microcontrollers or stand-alone IC’s.

